sort of guarded over me.
He was my watchdog.
The day he knew that I didn't like to go to meetings, that I really, really preferred to stay at the health center and see patients and so forth.
And the day that I got in 1980 that Jarvis Miller gave me the former students award,
He came over and it was his job to get me there.
I said, Perry, I can't go.
I'm not going.
I don't want to go.
It's just a bunch of speeches and so forth and so on.
He said, you're going.
I said, you know.
Finally I relented and I insisted on wearing my lab coat.
Here I am standing out like a sore thumb and he, of all things, he had us sitting down on about the third or fourth row and I was so embarrassed.
And then when you call my name, you finally call my name, but when you started talking about me,
I got lower and lower and lower in the seat.
And finally, I wasn't sitting up anymore.
I was lying down practically.
That was probably the high experience of all that I've had.
What did you do with the award money?
I bought gold.
I bought a quarter ounce of gold, I forget what the price of it was then, for each son.
And I remember how jealous I was the next year when Carolyn won.
I thought it was wonderful that Carolyn, and certainly if anybody deserved it, she did.
But I was very jealous that she got
What, twice?
Four times as much money?
Five thousand, I think.
I got one.
That was a lot of fun.
But anyway, that was very definitely a high point.
And I remember, of course, I can hear your voice right now.
And I can hear it, but at the same time, I didn't hear it, you know.
I remember saying to you, I said, you're going to have to write this down for me, what you said, because I didn't hear any of it.
And what happened was, it just, I lost it.
It just went away.
But anyway, so Perry and Francis Goff.
because I worked so long and so hard with her and so well.
And I could trust her, and she knew how I thought, and I knew how she thought, and so forth.
Some of the nurses didn't like her.
She was not what you would call a slave driver, but by gosh, she meant business when she said she wanted something done.
So they might have done it gripingly, but they did it.
And so I think I would have to mention those three.
You for giving me my award.
And Jack, because I don't know just what it is about Jack or was about him, but he just won you, you know?
That terrific smile, like I said, from ear to ear.
And never before had I had anybody who, when I did anything for them or related to them in any way, would write me notes like he did.
And I didn't save them all.
I'd save just a few.
And you'd be interested in seeing them.
One of them is downright sad.
It was after his illness.
Well, you'll know anyway.
He referred to the fact that he was sort of sorry that the board didn't kick him out from, from, from the, from under their feet earlier.
Anyway, you'll read that.
But, but, but he did, that's the way he, he related.
And of course, it was to everybody.
It wasn't just to me.
I just, just loved him.
Looking back on all those years, were there any opportunities for more capable service and health to the campus that we might have done?
Were there any things that we, in hindsight, could have done better?
I don't think we...
Given our facilities and space and so forth, I don't think we could necessarily have done anything better.
I think we could have done more.
We got very, very low on staff at first.
And like I said, and I want to make a point of it, I was forced to hire warm bodies, people who came along because there were no applicants to speak of.
Well, and there were a few who just left and said, you're not serious, are you, you know, about the salary.
Duane Lagan is also one of the high points of my being here because he was such a wonderful person.
And it's funny, some of the others on the staff didn't like him.
Were there any services that we should have offered that we didn't?
No, not really.
We started offering females birth control pills, gee whiz, the same day the building was dedicated because I mentioned it.
And there had been a little controversy because I had talked about it, that I was going to do that, and that we were going to do that.
I'm sure there was some bated breath out there.
But I went ahead and said it anyway.
And that, when we did that, before that we had not been allowed by someone, I don't know by whom, frankly, to give women birth control pills.
And of course they were free to begin with.
As far as you know, how did our services compare with similar institutions?
I think they were better.
In talking with, you see, Wheezy went to University of Texas.
And she, her experiences at their health center were minimal.
But she feels that, that they didn't have nearly, often nearly the service that we did.
I guess you'd say in a way sort of more sophisticated in some things.
But I don't think our equal in the sense of attitude and doing what we did with a smile and that sort of thing.
Francis Goff had a lot to do with that.
with the way that we offered services.
She also visited other health centers, University of Texas being one of them, and she felt the same way, that it was cold and impersonal and it wasn't, we were better.
If you were the consultant brought in now to advise the leadership of A&M, what advice would you give them?
Oh, boy, about health centers.
For now and the future?
That's a tough one.
That is really tough.
I'd have to be completely honest and say I don't know what I would say.
I would like to sit down with a bunch of people and talk it over.
I'd have to believe, of course, that the way it was when I first got here was as good as any and the way it evolved.
For example, they shouldn't contract it out to an outsider.
No, I don't think so.
I think it was so much better and so much more right when we did it ourselves, when we did it right and we could get accomplished things.
Believe it or not, the service was minimal that we could offer at the old health center.
I mean in the old building.
But the attitude was better.
Even Hal Poe had his moments that he would disappear and you couldn't find him when you needed him and so forth, you know.
But we all worked.
We all did the job.
And as long as there was anybody to work on.
Okay.
I can think of only one more question.
Have we left anything out that we should have covered?
No, I don't think so.
I'll think of a thousand things when you leave.
Remember, I'm going to give this first draft back to you to take out.
You know what I told you about that?
I said, you edit it.
I don't even want to see it.
If you think of other things, and particularly our spellings.
Oh, okay.
Spellings I can do.
All right, then the last question is this one.
What are your feelings about Texas A&M today?
How do you feel about A&M?
I love A&M.
I do not feel like an Aggie.
I never was an Aggie and I, goodness knows, I don't know whether I ever would be or not.
But I was so thoroughly ingrained to Blue Devil that I'll never be an Aggie.
I miss a lot on campus today because I don't, and have for, well since that 1988, that I do feel sort of out of things and that I have very little relationship to the campus.
But I love A&M, I really do.
I think I liked it better when I knew it better.
Things have changed an awful lot, I'm sure.
I never did.
I told Jack Williams that.
I told every president that would even listen to me that I didn't like bonfire, that I felt it was dangerous,
that someone was going to get killed, or, and I, you know, it's almost my attitude, like, I told you so.
That's my temptation to sing, but I've held my tongue.
But I sincerely hope they don't have more bonfires.
Certainly off campus, I think that would be a terrible mistake.
But I think on campus, what a wonderful chance to give an excuse if it has to be there.
We don't have any place that we can build it.
We can't build it in the front because the grass is there.
We can't build it because it slopes.
For some reason, we can't build it again.
Two years are going to elapse, I presume, between the time it fell and the time it might go up again.
I hope some positive changes can be made in the meantime.
Like I said, I never approved of it, and I told a bunch of people.
Perry always laughed at me because he's such a dyed-in-the-wool through and through Aggie that that's all he knows.
He can remember when bonfire was nothing but farmers' outhouses and their fence posts and any scraps of wood they could pick up.
That was bonfire to him.
And I'll just bet that he would wish it would, that when he, when that accident happened, I bet he thought, oh, it was so much better the way it was.
Why didn't it, why didn't it stay that way?
But that's, that's, that's, that is one thing that I'd failed to mention that, that I felt very strongly about.
I really did.
I'm quite sure I made myself unpopular about it, although I never, you know,
took anybody by the shoulder or the arms and said, look here, this is the way it ought to be, you know, but just that something was going to happen.
Of course, there was a death.
We saw in the treatment room some funny things after bonfire or during or when they were cutting for bonfires, cold weather with mud, and we saw
You know what an eel looks like?
It's an eel that lives in the mud.
It burrows into the mud and lives for years down there, all balled up.
How on earth did that happen?
Well, they'd bring students into the treatment room, the emergency room.
During Bonfire, we opened up the treatment room on the first floor to use as an emergency room.
We had so many calls.
And they would bring students in there in a ball of mud.
And we would take them upstairs immediately.
We would, you know, we'd expect this.
Put them in a shower, get them in a warm shower, get that mud off of them and make sure that they were okay otherwise.
That was a lot of fun, really.
There were some fun things that happened, as well as some bad things, people cutting themselves with axes.
exposure in the sense of cold and rain.
And that was interesting.
I suppose in a way that sort of was my formative, those were my formative years about my opinion about Bonfire.
But mainly I was so afraid that there was going to be an accident and really a serious thing.
All right, now you digress from feelings about A&M in your heart now.
I guess I'll have to be honest with you and say that I don't have the strong feeling, read, love for A&M that I once did.
I guess it's just...
Absence didn't make my heart grow fonder or something like that, something to that effect.
I love A&M.
I really do.
Let's quit with that line.
Quit?
Okay.